So we want to be able to emit an event whenever we click on one of these lists items. For that first
of all,
let's add a new method that fires when we click on one of them, onSelectSymbol maybe
and there I expect to get the symbol as a string which was selected as an argument
and in there, I want to emit my own custom event.
Now we learned how we can emit custom events in vanilla web component, stencil gives us a very easy
way of emitting our events too.
We add a new property with the name we want to use as an event, maybe SymbolSelected. Now it is a
good practice to turn this into a unique event name in case we have multiple web components on the page
that might emit clashing event names, so we add our prefix here too, ucSymbolSelected
and that would be the case for web components written without stencil too,
it is a good practice to do that.
This now needs a decorator,
the event decorator which needs to be imported from @stencil/core. Add parentheses here and then the
type of this property should be event emitter,
also imported from @stencil/core. Event emitter actually is a generic type which means we can pass
extra information with this type definition here where we tell Typescript which type of data will eventually
be emitted with this event emitter.
We do this by adding greater and smaller than signs which has nothing to do with TSX here which
is just Typescript syntax for generic types and the type of data we'll emit here will be a string, the
name of the symbol.
Now we have this event set up and we can configure it by passing an object to the event decorator
and there, you can set bubbles and composed just as you could do it for your own custom events
in vanilla web components which we covered in the first part of this course.
Now we have this custom event,
we can now use it here in onSelectSymbol to emit it, you simply call emit. That is a nice simplified
way of dispatching the event stencil
gives you and you simply pass the symbol here as an argument.
Now we just need to hook this up, onSelectSymbol,
let's go to a list item and whenever this is clicked,
so on a click here, I'll execute this onSelectSymbol,
bind this but also pass a second argument here which will be the first argument received in onSelectSymbol
and this should be the symbol we selected,
so in this case, the result.symbol down there, right.
That is also the symbol we output in JSX,
that is the symbol we want to pass to the onSelectSymbol function when it's executed.
And now I'll just add a little bit more styling here to show that we can click this,
so when we hover over this or when it is active, then I want to give this a background color of let's
say a nice purple and text color of white and I'll give my list items a cursor
of a pointer to make sure, to indicate that we can click this.
Now if I reload this and I search for BMW here, that looks clickable. Now if I click it,
how can we confirm whether it worked?
Well let's go to the index.html
file and there,
I'll add a little script section and here, I'll get access to my stock finder element by using document
query selector and then my own tag
here, ucStockFinder and just as with any other
HTML element, we can add an event listener because you already learned web components are treated like
normal HTML elements here
and I want to listen to the ucSymbol and the name was ucSymbolSelected.
So we want to listen to that event name here
and when this is fired, I get some event data and I will console log this event data here so that
we can see what's inside.
Now this is in the normal index.html file,
this is not a web component.
Now let's try this, let's clear the console here, search for BMW and then simply select one of these results
and here's our event and there, we'll have a detail key which holds the event data we emitted.
In our case, that was a string, that was just a symbol,
it was the symbol we selected,
so this is looking pretty good. So now we have a way of emitting a custom event,
how can we now listen to it from inside
another component?